---
layout: post
title: Using GNU Stow to manage your dotfile
author: Andy
summary: GNU Stow is a program that creates symlinks for your dotfiles
tags: linux, cli
---

# GNU Stow
tags: #linux, #cli

Using GNU Stow you can easily keep your dotfiles in a central folder by using symlninks.

## What is a Symlink

A symlink is short for symbolic link which means it is just a file that points to another file on your system.  In this case we can use GNU Stow to create a symlink from your home directory where your dotfiles will be located.  Just a any folder on your directory.

## How to use it

First you will need to install it as most system will not have it installed by default, which you can install it on any package manager whether it is brew, pacman, apt-get, etc.

Once install create a dotfiles directory where you will store your dotfiles. Then in that dotfiles directory create a folder for the name of the program.  Let say we want to do one for Alacritty, so we create a folder called alacritty.

```
example-dotfiles/alacritty
```

Next we will need to recreate the folder structure from our home directory that this dotfile lives.

For example if the dotfile on your system is at

```
~/.config/alacritty/alacritty.toml
```

In your dotfies create the exact folder structure like so.

```
example-dotfies/alacritty/.config/alacritty
```

And last move the alacritty.toml into that directory that we just created.

Then in your example-dotfiles directory just run stow like this in the cli like this.

```
stow alacritty
```

And that is it, a symlink is created.  Now you can do this for other config like tmux, nvim, or any other program.
